In this project, we're going to build
a transit status tracker for the city of Chicago using Apache Kafka and its ecosystem.
As you can see on the screen,
we're going to go ahead and create
a website that looks like this and it's going to be powered by
real-time event streaming data from
Kafka Faust KSQL as well as some of the other tools you learned about in the class.
So to complete this project,
we've decided that we're going to do a few things.
This is the architecture that we're going to have once we're complete with the project.
You'll notice that Kafka is a central component.
The first thing we're going to do in this project
is we're going to create a Kafka producer which
produces train arrival and turnstile information into our Kafka cluster.
Arrivals will simply indicate that a train has arrived at a particular station and
a turnstile event will simply indicate that a passenger has entered the station.
Next, we're going to go ahead and create a REST Proxy Producer.
So this will be a Python script that simply runs and periodically
emits weather data via REST Proxy and puts it into Kafka.
Finally, we're going to build a Kafka Connect,
JDBC source connector which is going to connect to Postgres and
extract data from our stations table and place it into Kafka.
On the other side of this,
we're going to go ahead and use
a Kafka consumer to actually consume data from these Kafka topics.
We're also going to be using Faust in KSQL to extract data and transform it.
The first step I recommend that you take in
this project is to create the Kafka producers.
Now, you'll notice in this README that we've actually walked through and
given you the specific things that you need to complete in your project.
Once you've done that, you'll go ahead and do next the Kafka REST Proxy Producer.
Next, you'll do the Kafka Connect JDBC Source Connector and then you'll go
ahead and move on to actually consuming
the data from the producers that you've created in the previous three steps.
So the first thing I recommend that you do is complete
the Faust Stream Processor and again I've left
some information for you here in case you forgot how to actually run the applications,
you can use the Faust-A faust_stream worker command.
You can also say Python name of the Faust file space worker
if you'd like but this is the traditional way of actually hitting a Faust application.
Next, we'll configure the KSQL table and
the KSQL table will transform an incoming stream into a different dataset,
and then finally we're going to go ahead and create Kafka Consumers to
actually consume the data in our final output application to render the webpage for us.
I've also included some helpful documentation for you.
Described the directory layout and put asterisks next to the files that you need to
complete and I've given some information on running locally if you'd like.
So I recommend using the workspace.
But if you prefer to run this on your local machine,
I've also provided a Docker Compose file which you can use to start up.
I do want to mention though that if you're going to use Docker Compose,
it does take a little while to start up.
On my computer, for example,
this takes about three to five minutes to get going.
So you'll need to be patient and you'll need to have a pretty recent computer.
Finally, there's actually instructions down here and actually running the simulation.
This is if you're doing it locally or on the actual machine.
So you'll want to make sure to create a virtual environment and
then actually install the requirements and then run the simulation.
So this is for the producer.
Here are the instructions on running the file stream processing application.
Again, we're using the KSQL Creation
Script which we're going to show you in a second here.
But you can see what we're doing is essentially just running a ksql.py.
So we're actually going to use
a Python post using the Request Library to actually instantiate our KSQL queries,
and then finally we're going to run the consumer which actually consumes all the data.
Now, it's worth mentioning we really shouldn't be running
this consumer until you've completed all the other steps.
But again, you're going to go ahead and create other virtual environment,
install the requirements and then run the server.
Once that's done, you'll be able to open up
your browser and check out the website that's being rendered.
Once you're ready to actually start the project,
I recommend going to the producer's folder first.
In the producer's folder,
you'll find the files that you need to complete at
connector.py which is for our Kafka Connect as well as in the models directory.
Now in the models directory,
we're going to take a look first at the producer code.
So let's open that up. So in the producer,
you can see I've left comments for what you need to complete.
So you'll see that we need to go ahead and fill out broker properties,
we need to configure an AvroProducer,
create a topic, and so on and so forth,
and also create closing code for our actual producer.
So what's important here is that you essentially fill out the blanks if you will.
So I've put in some wrapping code for you,
but this is essentially a generic Kafka producer which you need to complete.
Now, this Kafka producer will be used by
all of the other derivative classes that you need to complete.
Next, we have the station which again inherits from that producer.
So once that producer's complete will automatically
go ahead and interact with Kafka in the station.
The only thing that we need to do here is provide
some information such as the name of the topic,
the value schema, number of partitions and replicas,
and of course we'd actually produce the data in the run function.
So it'll be up to you to complete this.
For turnstile, we're going to do something very similar.
Essentially, we're going to define a value schema.
So while in the turnstile,
I want to pause for a moment and just tell you
about the AvroSchemas which you need to complete.
So you'll see this folder over here on the left called schemas.
So there are a number of schemas which you
need to complete in order to complete the project.
So we're looking at turnstile.
So let's take a look at turnstile value.
Now, if you open this in the JSON editor,
it's just going to let you view it but we want to actually edit it.
So we're going to go open with editor.
Now, you can see there's nothing in here.
We have a key called to-do and then there's a value of complete this schema.
So it's up to you to define an AvroSchema for the turnstile,
for the weather type, and for the arrival type.
With that schema completed,
we're going to return to the turnstile file and
again we're simply going to name the topic, come up with the values,
provide the value schema,
and then pass in the number of partitions replicas as
well as complete the run function which actually produces data to Kafka.
Next, we're going to move on to weather.py.
Now, weather.py is actually interacting with the REST Proxy.
So the REST Proxy URL has been provided for you
as well as essentially a simulation of fake weather.
All that you need to do is complete
the weather schema and then you also need to complete a topic name,
number of partitions and replicas.
Then of course, you need to go ahead and produce the data to the REST Proxy.
So it'll be up to you to complete this post.
Now, I've left some notes here for you to think
about as you go ahead and complete this post.
Finally, we have to complete the Kafka Connect Connector.
You'll find that in the producers folder at inconnector.py.
So I've already passed in the Kafka Connect URL and a connector name for you.
So all you need to do is finish configuring the connector and
then going ahead and posting that to Kafka Connect.
Just note that for the key converter and value converter we're using JSON.
In part, that's because downstream of our Kafka Connect will
be Python Faust and files can't handle Avro without some work.
So we're just going to put use JSON for now.
With that done, we're ready to move on to the consumer.
So let's move back to the root of our folder and move into consumers.
So the first thing that we're going a take a look at in consumers is server.py.
Now, server.py doesn't have any code for you to complete but
you to can get a feel for how the project comes together in this file.
You can see we're instantiating a number of
Kafka consumers and then we're also setting up a web application which
listens on the port 8888 which is where you can actually access your web project.
With that done, the first thing that we want to go ahead and
take a look at is our Faust stream.
So you can see our Faust stream already has some records defined for
you and has an input station and an output transformed station.
So we're going to be performing some filtering on this data.
So we wanted to only take some of the fields off of
the station and produce this output transform station.
I've left a number of notes for you on what you're expected to complete here and
at the end you should be outputting
a transformed station complete with just these fields.
Likewise, we're going to be using KSQL to transform another stream.
In this case, we're going to be transforming the turnstile data into a turnstile summary.
So again, I've left the skeleton of a KSQL statement for you here,
I need you to go ahead and complete it.
The next thing l want to do is actually go ahead and complete the KSQL file.
We're using Requests to post the KSQL query to the server.
So we're not going to use in the KSQL client in this case.
So to complete this portion of the assignment,
you're simply going to fill in the rest of this KSQL statement.
I've left some helpful instructions for you here so
that you can be hinted along on what you need to do.
Now, I also want to note that you need to run ksql.py and faust_stream.py on your own.
So when we start the server,
it's not going to run these files for you.
They're meant to be developed independently of the server.
With those complete, you're ready to move on to the final steps.
The final step of the project is to go into
the Consumer's Models folder and we're going to complete line and weather.py.
So the only thing that you're expected to complete here is process message.
In this case, we have if true, true,
true and that's simply because these conditional statements are not completed.
So you need to actually look at the messages and decide how to route them.
In weather.py, you need to actually process the message as well.
You'll need to extract the temperature and status from
the message and update the object's representation.
Finally, we have this consumer.py.
Consumer.py it should be completed before the previous models.
Consumer.py is similar to the producer model
that we created in the producer section of the project.
Essentially, you're going to set up a Kafka Consumer,
you're going to handle various types of data,
whether it's Avro or JSON,
and you're going to subscribe to topics that have been passed in to the object.
So we have this topic named pattern here.
You're going to handle on a sign.
So remember from our class lessons that sometimes we want
to go ahead and rewind a partition to the first known offset.
So you're expected to do that here.
Then finally, you need to go ahead and complete
the consumer function and the close function.
With that done, you're ready to go ahead and run
your Python server to see an output that looks something like this.
I do want to note that it may take a few minutes for your project to start running.
So if you open this page and you see that there's duplicate trains.
That's okay. Just give it a few minutes to stabilize.
Given the limited resources and the speed at which the simulation runs,
it can take up to a couple of minutes for the project to begin running correctly.
So be patient and go ahead and look for this temperature to update,
the number of total turnstile entries to change,
as well as trains to advance from station to station.
All right. Now you're ready to get started with the project.
In this project, you're going to see
all the tools that we learned about in lessons throughout this course.
I hope you enjoyed getting a taste of how to actually use
these tools and see how they work together all at the same time.
I hope especially that after taking this class and completing this project,
that you feel that you have a strong grasp on how you can use
these tools to improve your work on a daily basis.